Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're going to take our Hello World app
a little further and we're also going to add
entry input fields.
Input fields will allow us to retrieve data
from users, let them input some stuff
that we can then use within our functions.
Let's get started.
First of all we're going to create our label
and our input field.
So we will say name label is ttk.label
and we will pass in the root and some text.
We will also then pack it into the container.
We will say side equal left
and we're gonna say pad X equal zero, 10.
What that does is it adds a little bit of spacing
on the right side of the label.
This one being the left side of the label,
and this one being the right side.
So you can imagine that it is adding 10 pixels
to the right of the label, so that when we add
another item beside it, it will be slightly separated.
Which it is going to be the name entry.
That is the item that we're going to add beside it
and that is ttk.entry.
We're also going to put in the root.
We're gonna define the width
and we're also gonna say where the contents
of this field should go.
So whenever we type anything into this field,
we want to be able to then use what's typed inside the field
at any point.
To do that we will say text variable
and we're gonna say user name.
Now of course, we do have to define the user name variable
which we don't have yet.
Here is where tkinter enter differs
from traditional types of code.
In order to be able to get the contents of this entry field,
we have to define a place in Python were this field
can write to.
And that is going to be called the tk.StringVar.
A StringVar is just an object that is used to track
the contents of these entry widgets.
Essentially it contains a string,
and that string will always be whatever is currently typed
in this entry.
Next up, we're also going to pack it buy saying
side equals left,
and we're gonna say name entry.focus.
Focus is what you call on a particular component
in tkinter, so that it appears focused on the window.
Press play here and I'll show you what I mean by that.
You can see now that the field has focus.
It has a blue line around it, and you can immediately
type on it.
Now if we were able to somehow inspect the contents
of the user name variable, you would see
that it contains the string Jose amongst other things.
Let's close this for now, and I will create a greet button.
We have created now our button as well,
and that is just as we had before,
something in the root, with the text greet,
and the command is this greet function up here
that is currently empty.
So to fill in this function,
we're gonna say print.
And in here we're gonna say hello, user name,
which is this variable here, dot get.
Dot get is a method that we call on
these StringVar objects to retrieve the contents
or the string contents of the variable.
So let's run this.
Now because all our components have been packed on the left,
they all appear side by side.
This is how side equal left works
and we're gonna learn more about packing
in the next video.
So I'll type Jose here and then type and click greet
and you can see that Hello, Jose is printed out.
Now in order to make a little bit more of this,
instead of user name.get,
we can type user name.get or world.
And what that'll do is if user name.get
does not return a value or rather it returns
an empty string, we're gonna type Hello, World instead.
So you can see that Hello, World gets printed out
at the bottom left.
So we've learned a couple more things in this video.
We have learned how to create labels
or just static texts, as well as input fields, or entries
in our tkinter applications.
And we've also learned how to store the contents
of those, inside our own variables.
And finally we have learned about pad X and also
it's counterpart which exists, pad Y,
to add extra spacing around any component.
I'll say at this point that pad X can be used
on any component whenever you use pack.
So you can put it here, or here,
and that would also add spacing around these components
if you want.
In pad X, the zero is the left, and the 10 is the right.
And in pad Y, the first one is the top
and the second one is the bottom.
So thank you for joining me in this video.
Hope you've learned something.
And in the next video, we're going to look at pack.
See you there.